Smpl+d body models (#150)
tasostefas/opendr_internal: projects/simulation/SMPL+D_body_models/README.md

# SMPL+D body models

This folder contains code for downloading a large number of human models in SMPL+D body model format, as well as code for making them able to be transferred to Webots for simulations.

<p float="left">
  <img src="./examples/model_1.png" width=150 />
  <img src="./examples/model_4.png" width=150 />
  <img src="./examples/model_3.png" width=150 />
  <img src="./examples/model_2.png" width=150 />
</p>

> ### Download the raw SMPL+D models only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Download the raw SMPL+D models only

```

```
python download_data.py raw
```

> ### Download the SMPL+D models and convert them as FBX (Filmbox) files. <br/>In this case the pose blend shapes are not applied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Download the SMPL+D models and convert them to FBX (Filmbox)

**Note:** in this case the pose blend shapes are not applied.

```

> - Download the data by running:

Reviewer: Should probably mention how big this file is so users are aware.

Author: > Should probably mention how big this file is so users are aware.

I added their size in the description

```
python src/download_data.py
```

- Download SMPL for Unity from the official website [here](https://smpl.is.tue.mpg.de/). Once you agree on SMPL license terms and have access to downloads, you will have the following two files:
```
SMPL_f_unityDoubleBlends_lbs_10_scale5_207_v1.0.0.fbx
SMPL_m_unityDoubleBlends_lbs_10_scale5_207_v1.0.0.fbx
```

> - Place these two files in the ```model``` directory.

Reviewer: No model directory appears to be included. So should probably mention at what level it should be placed.

Author: The 'model' folder is created once the download_data.py has been run. 
https://github.com/tasostefas/opendr_internal/blob/ae7e4a3527d290a3b7524e2af35a24da55874097/projects/simulation/SMPL%2BD_body_models/src/download_data.py#L61

- Download and install Blender (tested on 2.93.4 version)

- Set the path to Blender.
```
export BLENDER_PATH=path_to_Blender
```
- Install the necessary packages to Blender's Python using pip (example using Blender 2.93 and Python 3.9):
```
$BLENDER_PATH/2.93/python/bin/python3.9 -m ensurepip
$BLENDER_PATH/2.93/python/bin/python3.9 -m pip install numpy opencv-python opencv-contrib-python scipy
```
- Generate the human models as FBX files. 
```
$BLENDER_PATH/blender -P src/generate_models.py
```

> ### Install a demo Webots project for animating SMPL+D models. <br/> FBX models must have been previously generated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Install a demo Webots project for animating SMPL+D models

**Note:** FBX models must have been previously generated
```

<p float="left">
  <img src="./examples/model_1.png" width=150 />
  <img src="./examples/model_4.png" width=150 />
  <img src="./examples/model_3.png" width=150 />
  <img src="./examples/model_2.png" width=150 />
</p>

### Download the raw SMPL+D models only (≈12.5Gb)

```
python download_data.py raw
```

### Download the SMPL+D models and convert them to FBX (Filmbox) (≈12.5Gb)

**Note:** in this case the pose blend shapes are not applied.

- Download the data by running:
```
python src/download_data.py
```

- Download SMPL for Unity from the official website [here](https://smpl.is.tue.mpg.de/). Once you agree on SMPL license terms and have access to downloads, you will have the following two files:
```
SMPL_f_unityDoubleBlends_lbs_10_scale5_207_v1.0.0.fbx
SMPL_m_unityDoubleBlends_lbs_10_scale5_207_v1.0.0.fbx
```
- Place these two files in the ```model``` directory.

- Download and install Blender (tested on 2.93.4 version)

- Set the path to Blender.
```
export BLENDER_PATH=path_to_Blender
```
- Install the necessary packages to Blender's Python using pip (example using Blender 2.93 and Python 3.9):
```
$BLENDER_PATH/2.93/python/bin/python3.9 -m ensurepip

> $BLENDER_PATH/2.93/python/bin/python3.9 -m pip install numpy opencv-python opencv-contrib-python scipy

Author: I added tqdm in L44 of README.md

```
- Generate the human models as FBX files. 
```
$BLENDER_PATH/blender -P src/generate_models.py
```

### Install a demo Webots project for animating SMPL+D models

**Note:** FBX models must have been previously generated

> -  Download a database from AMASS (https://amass.is.tue.mpg.de/download.php)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Download ACCAD database from AMASS (https://amass.is.tue.mpg.de/download.php)

```

Reviewer: Better specify something that is known to work. I tried a different one since ACCAD wasn't working and got an error because it was missing `mocap_framerate`.
Eventually I could download ACCAD though.

Author: Ok, I added an if-statement for mocap_framerate. In its current state the mocap_framerate isn't used by the webots controller.  However, since I haven't checked all databases, it could be safer to specify it for the ACCAD database.
